what are you doing to prepare for your
IELTS test there are lots of different
ways that you can be preparing you might
be part of an IELTS class you might be
studying online on your own you might be
studying online with us at e2 language
you're probably also reading magazines
reading newspapers watching shows on
Netflix and hopefully you're also
listening to podcasts and that's what I
want to talk about in this video
podcasts for IELTS preparation and
better English first thing is what is
the podcast basically it's a radio show
but on your phone so think of it like a
kind of Netflix but for audio in this
video I'm going to show you how to find
podcasts good ones how to use them for
IELTS preparation and just for improving
your language in general and I'll share
with you my top 10 podcasts how to find
podcasts you can access podcasts just by
using the browser on your computer just
by googling them but of course the best
way to do it is on your phone if you've
got an apple you're lucky enough to have
a special little app called podcasts
it's a purple tile looks like this if
you've got an Android phone you'll have
to download a special podcast player
stitcher is a free one and probably the
most well-known but there are lots of
them on the market once you've got this
app on your phone simply open it up
type in podcast which I'll tell you
later into the search function in this
case I'm looking for future tense which
is a great podcast from ABC Radio
National then you just click on the tile
and you can scroll through and see all
the episodes that are there click on
details click on the three dots and
click play next if you want or of course
you can just hit the play button on the
left there if you like the podcast and
you want to catch the newest episodes
when they come out click on the
subscribe button so that's how you find
them and how you play them but how can
you use podcast
to both prepare for IELTS and also to
just improve your language ability in
general I'm going to show you eight
different ways that they can be useful
number one build your listening stamina
like all language tests IELTS is a kind
of endurance test as well as a language
test depending where you take the test
your listening section could be the
first thing of the day or it could be
the third thing of the day either way it
involves you concentrating very
carefully for 30 to 40 minutes it's not
a thing that we do very often in the
real world these days focus on something
100% for that amount of time especially
if listening is the third thing of the
day you've already spent two hours on
the writing and the reading and you're
probably mentally fatigued so use
podcasts to build up the amount of time
that you can concentrate in the amount
of time that you can listen to one thing
without losing concentration so start
with a couple of minutes perhaps a
little TED talk and build up and build
up until you're comfortable listening to
30 to 40 minutes straight now of course
you can listen to podcasts when you're
at the gym when you're walking when
you're commuting when you're cleaning
the house but you can also use them when
you're sitting at your desk with your
pin in study mode a second way to use
podcasts is to use them to focus on
overall meaning of audio and you can do
this by listening first it might be a
conversation or a lecture then summarize
so actually get your pen or if you're on
the computer type out into a document
what you think the people were
discussing what were the main points
that they made and here you may have
listened to just 30 seconds maybe two
minutes maybe up to ten minutes just
challenge yourself to write a quick
summary once you've done that listen
again and check so you can check by just
listening several times or you can use
the transcript which brings me to the
third point number three use the
transcripts
at the end of this video I'll share some
podcasts that come with the transcript
and you can use this script of this text
in a number of different ways one of
course is to check your own summary of
what you've heard another way is if you
struggle with pronunciation particularly
things like chunking grouping words
together outputting chunks of words
together sentence stress word stress
intonation if that's something that your
teacher has told you you need to work on
use the transcript while you listen and
try to mimic or shadow read with the
speaker another cool way to use the
transcript is to create your own
gap-fill and it's pretty easy I'll show
you how to do it so what you can do is
find the website of one of the podcasts
I'm gonna tell you about this is all in
the mind all about what place bullies go
down to the transcripts which is here
either grab the whole transcript or just
a chunk of it let's take this much and
then go to this website I've shared the
link in the description below and you
simply paste the text in here and you
can choose whether you want to make it
interactive if you want clues or no
clues I always like to make it
interactive and you can choose how many
words to remove so maybe every fifth
word or every tenth word is going to be
taken out you can also select different
parts of speech that you want to remove
I'm going to keep it random and that is
it click on submit and it will remove
those words for you then simply play the
podcast and fill in the gaps
a fourth way to use podcasts is to get
used to hearing real English it's
probably no surprise to you that
classroom English or textbook English
and real English are two completely
different things if you've ever traveled
to an english-speaking country you'll
know we don't speak like the textbooks
speak so we might say how's it going
what up - you wanna grab a cup of coffee
of the tsavo something like that that
kind of language is rarely used in
textbooks but by listening to podcasts
you can start to become accustomed to
that real and quite
rapid speech IELTS listening by the way
is not real English and not quite
textbook English it's in-between so that
the more that you listen to real English
the slower and the easier IELTS
listening will sound let me show you an
example of real English versus an IELTS
English this is a snippet from the all
in the mind podcast and it's about
corporate bullying I think there's two
reasons one is people don't want to
personally admit if they've bullied
others and the other category is I think
some people who have bullied others
don't want to admit it at all to anyone
even themselves or they may not realize
or they may not acknowledge that they've
been a bully what is conflict in the
workplace definitions vary but I'm
taking it to refer to a whole range of
behaviors that the victim finds
unacceptable from minor harmless
arguments to at the opposite extreme
physical violence
notice how the aisle speaker was a lot
more careful and quite a bit slower than
the real-life English speaker which
brings me to my fifth point which is to
vary the speed dealing with real-life
English might be challenging for you
particularly depending on the speaker
some of them are very very fast but your
podcast player has a great little
feature that can help you to deal with
this let's listen to part of one of our
e two talks podcast by the way find the
link for that in the description below I
want to show you how you can make the
speed faster and also slower notice in
the bottom left of the screen it says 1
X or 1 x this means it's normal speed
but I'm gonna make it faster and then
slower just by tapping on it you're
probably going to need to write this
much in order to
on this two-part mask because you got
any words to develop so so obviously
that's helpful if you want to slow it
down but it can also be a kind of fun
challenge to speed it up listen to Jay
talking in double-time if you go from
that to an IELTS listening test you're
gonna feel like it is super slow so it's
a good little hack I suppose for your
preparation number six build language so
this is a bit of a no-brainer but of
course the more you listen to English
the more you hear it and read the
transcript the more exposure you're
going to have to vocabulary and grammar
and structures and you'll see how we use
that vocab and that grammar in a
real-life context here is a quick
example from the all in the mind podcast
again I've just taken a couple of lines
from the conversation but you'll notice
how rich it is in vocabulary we've got
present perfect here one of the key
things that we have identified an
effective instrument a nice collocation
they're humiliating offensive behavior
more nice vocabulary enhance your
performance a great collocation so even
in that tiny bit of script there is a
lot of vocab if you had to write an
essay or talk about bullying or
corporate workplace culture you could
bring in some of that vocabulary
definitely something to go into your
vocab book number seven learn something
this applies not just to language
learners but to everybody in general and
as a huge podcast fan myself this is
something that I enjoy in the podcast
app itself yes you can type in the name
of a podcast but you can also just type
a topic that you're interested in or a
topic in our case that we know IELTS is
interested in something like
globalization or genetically modified
food or farming or crime and then you'll
see a whole list of different podcast
episodes and you can select one that you
interests you and number eight enjoy
there's a podcast on any topic in the
world and you can find something
educational you can also find comedy
podcasts you can find interview podcasts
you might want to look up your favorite
celebrity I'm sure that they've been on
a podcast two podcasts are a great way
to spend your time whether or not you're
preparing for a test so let me share my
top ten I've divided these into podcasts
with transcripts and podcasts without
transcripts just to help you if you want
to use the transcript for your IELTS
preparation very difficult to narrow
down to only ten but here we go five of
them with transcripts one is all in the
mind I showed that podcast a couple of
times in this video this is a podcasts
all about psychology basically all about
the brain very interesting Health Report
now both of these are from ABC Radio
National which is a great resource for
podcasts stuff you should know this is a
podcast which teaches you stuff you
should know covers a huge range of
topics this is an American podcast so if
you want to get used to the American
accent the first two have usually Aussie
accents although a lot of international
guests as well fourth one is 6 minute
English this is a specific podcast for
people learning English
obviously it's bite-sized only 6 minutes
each episode is a different topic comes
with transcripts and comes with
activities and of course we can't forget
about TED talks without transcripts a
great one from BBC is costing the earth
all about environmental issues Digital
planner is also from the BBC and looks
at technology matters big ideas from ABC
Radio National and future tense
two great podcasts that deal with
technologies science and things to do
with the future and the last one I'm a
little bit biased but of course I
recommend e to talks which is our own
podcast here at e tu language
I hope that was helpful for you and
please share with me your favorite
podcast in the comment section below I'm
always on the lookout for new stuff see
you in class at ET language calm
[Music]